Hello and welcome to this new tutorial and the previous to toile we took care of the encoder and layer
and then this one we're going to take care of the decoder arland layer and we're going to have to do
it in three steps.
First step will be to decode the training set and that's what we'll do in the Statoil.
Second step will be to decode the validation set.
And that's what we'll do in the next tutorial.
And then eventually we'll be ready to create the decoder Arnon there.
So let's take the first step in today's tutorial decoding the training set.
So again we're going to make another function.
This architecture is all about making functions and this function we're going to make is going to be
called the decode.
And those core training on this core set that way we clearly understand what's going on.
The coach training set and it is going to take a lot of arguments.
So let's add them one by one.
The first argument is going to be the encoder underscore state because our decoder is getting the encoded
state as input as part of the inputs to proceed to the decoding.
And therefore we will need the anchor to state that was returned by the previous function and current
RNA layer to proceed to the decoding.
All right so go to state then the next argument is going to be the decoder cell.
And that's basically the cell in the record neural network of the decoder.
Then the next argument is going to be the decoder embedded on this core input and that's basically the
inputs on which were applied embedding and I'm going to explain to you right now what this means.
But to do this the best way is that I go to the tenths of a Web site in the embedding section in the
programmer's guide.
So basically we have a clear explanation here and embedding is a mapping from discrete objects such
as words and especially words here we're dealing with words two vectors of real numbers.
So for example a 300 dimensional embedding for English words like we're dealing with could include blue
with the following code.
The following embedding code than Bleus the following embedding code basically and embedding is just
a mapping from our words to vectors of real numbers.
Each one encoding uniquely the word associated to it.
And so that's very important to work with embeddings.
When building a set like model because that's basically the kind of format that the decoder is accepting
for its inputs and therefore I'm going to go back to Python.
Well we need to have our embedded input and I'm precise saying that these are the inputs of the decoder.
So decoder embedded inputs.
Then we're going to take again our sequence length.
Then the next one is going to be the decoding.
And this core scope.
So this is pretty technical.
And again to explain that to you I'm going to go back to tenso flow on this time the T.F. that variable
scope class by tensor flow which I get not in the programmer's guide but in the API are 1.4 at the time
Im speaking.
So variable scope.
What is it.
That's basically an advanced data structure that will wrap your tenths of a variables.
And so the next argument here that we're inputting is the decoding scope but that will be like an object
of this variable scope.
All right so let's go back by then.
And here we are back in by Indigo decoding scope then we have three more arguments to go the next one
is output and this core function.
So basically that's a function we will use to return the decoder outputs and then we're going to have
our keep prob argument because again we're going to apply some dropout regularization and eventually
the batch size because we'll work again with batches.
Right and that's it.
So that's a lot of arguments but no worries.
We will try not to get lost.
All right.
So the first thing we're going to have to do is get the attention States so I'm introducing a new variable
here a tension underscore States and how are we going to get them.
Well before getting them we're going to have to initialize them and we're going to initialize them as
three dimensional matrices containing only zeroes.
And to do that we have to use the T.F. that zeroes function like the non-pilot zero's function.
And inside this function will like the number of zeros function we have to specify in square brackets
the number of lines of this three dimensional matrix you want to create the number of columns and the
number of elements in the third dimension.
That is the third axis.
So let's take care of the lines first the lines corresponds to the observations and therefore since
we're working with batches here.
Well we have to create a batch and therefore the number of lines is going to be the batch size.
And so since batch size is one of our arguments Well the number of lines here is going to be Bache underscore
size.
All right then the number of columns is going to be 1.
We only need one column and for the third dimension the third axis.
Well the number of elements in the third axis is going to be the decoder cell.
That output size the decoder cell output size.
All right.
So we just initialized our attention States.
And now what we have to do is prepare the keys the values the functions for the attention.
So we're going to get first the attention keys then the attention values then the attention score function
then the attention construct function and all these we will get it in one shot.
Thanks to a very useful Tenterfield function that belongs to the SEC to sec submodule from the contrib
module which is prepare attention.
That's exactly what you want right now.
We want to preprocess the training data in order to prepare it to the attention process.
So let's get them first.
We said the attention kids the attention values the attention score function the attention construct
function and all these We're going to get them from sense of the sense of the library then from the
contrib module and then from this control module the SEC to sec submodule I'm really glad that of flow
offers this.
This is very practical for all the pre-processing of attention so to speak.
And so from the SEC to sex submodule we're going to have to get the prepare underscore a tension function
because right now we want to do some pre-processing for the attention process.
So the preparedness and function.
And here we go for another round of many arguments.
The first one is going to be the attention states that we just initialized in the previous line right
here.
So attention States right now they're just initialized as zeros.
Attention States then we're going to have to choose an attention option.
So basically you have several options to proceed to the attention process.
And one of them which is the one we're going to choose is be a H D A and A you.
So attention option equals better.
No.
And the next argument is going to be the number of units which we get thanks to the decoder cell.
So we'll take the stickers cell argument that is the cell of the decoder and we'll get its output size
which corresponds to the number of units in this prepare attention function.
So we take our decoder cell and we add the output on those core size.
All right so now that we added everything I'm just going to say a few words on what exactly these guys
are.
So the attention keys that's the key is to be compared with the target states then the attention values
that's the values that we'll use to construct the context vectors.
I remind them the context is returned by the encoder and that should be used by the decoder as the first
element of the decoding.
Then the attention's Gore function is used to compute the similarity between the keys and the target
states and eventually the attention constructs function is a function used to build the tension state.
So we have all these attention features.
And now the next step is to get the training to code a function that will do the decoding of the training
set.
And so this is a function that we're going to get right now.
I'm going to introduce a new variable that will be this function that I'm going to call training underscore
decoder underscore function.
Sorry again for the long variable names but that's just to clearly show you what's going on here that
you have a clear visual at what's going on.
So training the caller function and thank goodness we're going to get it from another function I just
sick to sick module of the tens of library which is the attention the coater and train function.
So you see I'm not the only one to choose big variable names for all these tens of law does that too.
So let's get this function from first the center of library then from the contrib module then from the
control module we get the SEC to sec submodule and from the SEC to submodule we get the function we
want which is the tension underscore decoder underscore an underscore train.
And that's the function that will decode the training set but it can only do it once we prepare correctly
the attention which is what we've just done here in the two previous lines.
All right but now we can get it.
And as you can imagine the attention features that we've prepared just before thanks to the prepared
attention function is going to be the arguments of this attention decoder and train function.
So let's do this let's put them one by one.
However we're going to input all of them but we will put one more in that will be our first argument
here and that's the encoder state and code underscore state which I remind we got from the previous
function and could a Arnon layer.
We got it here thanks to the bidirectional dynamic Arnon function again from the tensor for library.
So that does encourage state here but to get exactly what we want.
That is the value of the state.
Well we need to get the index zero of this and go to state variable.
All right so and code of state zero.
That's the first argument and then we're going to have to input all the attention features as the other
argument.
So let's take care of them one by one.
The first one is are the tension keys that I remind will be compared to the target states.
Then the next argument is our attention and those core values that I remind again are used to construct
the context vectors.
Right.
The next the next argument is are a tension score a function that compute the similarity between the
keys and the target state.
So tension score function.
All right.
Perfect.
The next argument is our attention construct function to build the attention state so that we go attention
on this core construct function and eventually we have this last argument here which is the name argument
and this corresponds to a name scope for the decoding function and the name scope we want here is a
sense of flow name scope attention but spelled this way 80 n underscore deck for the coder.
And this core train that you have to put in quotes.
All right so there we go we have all our arguments here.
And now I think it's really important that we take a step back and explain what's going on because this
is pretty overwhelming.
But in order to survive overwhelming as well we need to take a step back.
That's very important.
So basically what we just did here is that we got an attentional Dakota function for the training of
our dynamic Arnon an indicator that we're going to make in two tutorials because in the next one will
take care of the validation set.
But we're doing this for this future dynamic.
Arnon Dakota.
So now that we did that we're going to move on to the next step which is to get the decoder output so
I'm introducing a new variable which is decoder output and this I'm going to get it from Again another
function by the SEC the SEC module of tenso flow which is a dynamic Arnon decoder so dynamic Island
decoder is a function that is used to get the output to final state and the final context state of the
decoder.
And therefore since it returns first the decoder output then the Daker final state then the decoded
final text.
But we are only interested in the decoder output.
Well what we have to do before applying this function is as you know these underscore an underscore
here because this function that we're going to use returns the three elements but we only need the first
one.
And if you want I can even write to you what this returns if you want to have a more clear understanding
of what is going on.
So the second argument is the decoder final state and the third argument is that decoder underscore
final underscore context underscore state that words will be returned by that function.
But we only need the decoder output therefore feel free to replace all these by underscores.
But for those of you who liked the idea of clearly showing what's going on here I can even replace this
underscore here by the first elements returned by this bidirectional dynamic Arnon function which is
again the encoder output which we don't need for encoding.
But for those of you who are interested to see what's going on with the functions we're using I can
still add it here encoder and the score outputs and Kuru output and for the other group of people who
doesn't care of seeing everything.
If I may say Well feel free to replace that by an underscore right.
So but now not only we have a clear visual at what is going on there also we will get what we want which
right now is the decoder output.
Keep in mind in short you can actually write that down for the encoder you will only need the encoder
state because that will then go into the decoder and for the decoder you will only need the decoder
output the decoder output and not the final state or the final context state.
Right so now let's get this function that will return the decoder output.
So this function would get it from the tens of library of course.
Then the contrib module then the SEC 2 sec submodule and from the 6 to 6 module we get that dynamic
underscore Arnon underscore decoder function.
That's the one dynamic Arnon decoder function and this dynamic Arnon decode function takes several arguments.
The first one is the decoder cell which is one of our arguments of the decode training set function
that we're making right now.
C decode a cell here and that's what we need first for this dynamic Arnon decode function to decode
a cell.
Then the next argument is going to be our training underscore decoder.
On this core function that we just got at the previous line.
This line here.
All right training the code a function.
Then the next argument is going to be the embedded input of our decoder which is one of the arguments
of our de-code training that function.
This one the code for embedded input.
So the argument here the code for embedded input.
Perfect then next argument is the sequence lengths.
Then the next one after that is the scope which is another of our arguments and that's the coding scope
here.
So the coding underscores cope all right and we're done.
Then one last step.
So let's go back here.
Perfect.
The final step that we should do here is to apply a final dropout to our decoder output and therefore
I'm going to introduce a final variable here that I'm going to call the Kirner underscore output underscore
drop out.
And now it's going to be simple We'll just used to drop out function from the end and Mudgal by tens
of flow to basically apply dropout to our decoder output that we just got here with.
Still the key prob controlling parameter of the dropout rate.
All right so let's get the tens of library first then and then module and from this end and module we
get the drop out function.
That's going to take two arguments.
First the output of the decoder on which we want to apply dropout decoder output so decoder underscore
output and the second one.
Then keep prob parameter controlling the dropout rate so keep trub and perfect.
We just get our decoder output with drop out applied.
And for the training data.
So let's not forget just to return it return.
And now to return it the right way we're going to use our output function which is one of our arguments
here output function and this output function is going to take what we want to return which is our decoder
output dropout.
And congratulations.
We're just done with this function.
I hope that wasn't too overwhelming.
I really tried to take a step back several times.
I will give you the resource of this tutorial the links of the tensor flow pages that I showed you.
You have a lot more explanations that I could tell you in one tutorial.
So have a look at the resources in this tutorial and hopefully have a better understanding.
All right.
So we're going to execute.
I'm just seeing a little typo here.
Output and this should be all fine.
So we're going to select all these and execute perfect decoding of the training set done.
And now we're going to tackle the decoding of the validation set.
The good news is that it's going to be quite the same as what we just did.
We're just going to make a copy paste and then we'll have a few things to change but we'll get quickly
to creating the decoder Arnon layer into tutorials.
Until then I'll be.